docs(ai-agents): Update ChatGPT MCP app setup (#78005)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/ai-agents/interfaces/mcp/readme.md

- **Credentials for the connectors you want to use.** Each service requires its own authentication. For example, you need a Linear API key to connect Linear, or Salesforce OAuth credentials to connect Salesforce.

> - **ChatGPT app access, if you're using ChatGPT.** You need a logged-in ChatGPT account with access to apps. Some apps with search or deep research capabilities may not be available on Free or Go plans. Business, Enterprise, and Education workspaces can restrict which apps and actions are available.

Author: Let's scope this to the ChatGPT tab only, since that's the only place it's relevant.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="chatgpt" label="ChatGPT">

ChatGPT can connect to the Agent MCP from the ChatGPT app directory.

:::note Workspace controls can limit app access
ChatGPT can turn off **Connect** based on your plan, geographic restrictions, or workspace settings. On Business plans, workspace administrators can turn off apps and control app actions. On Enterprise and Education plans, apps are off by default until a workspace owner or administrator enables them. Enterprise and Education administrators can also use RBAC to restrict who can use each app.
:::

> 1. Open [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com) on the web. OpenAI doesn't currently document a separate app directory setup path for the desktop app.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com) on the web or in the app.
```

> 2. Open the app directory. In the web UI, click **Apps** in the sidebar. In the app, click **Settings** > **Apps**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Open the app directory. In the web UI, click **Apps** in the sidebar. In the app, click **Settings** > **Apps** > **Browse Apps**.
```

> 2. Open the app directory. In the current web UI, click **Apps** in the sidebar. OpenAI's help center also documents the app directory at **Settings** > **Apps**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Open the app directory. In the web UI, click **Apps** in the sidebar. In the app, click **Settings** > **Apps**.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="chatgpt" label="ChatGPT">

ChatGPT can connect to the Agent MCP from the ChatGPT app directory.

:::note Workspace controls can limit app access

> ChatGPT can turn off **Connect** based on your plan, geographic restrictions, or workspace settings. Some apps with search or deep research capabilities may not be available on Free or Go plans. On Business plans, workspace administrators can turn off apps and control app actions. On Enterprise and Education plans, apps are off by default until a workspace owner or administrator enables them. Enterprise and Education administrators can also use RBAC to restrict who can use each app.

Author: ```suggestion
ChatGPT can turn off **Connect** based on your plan, geographic restrictions, or workspace settings. On Business plans, workspace administrators can turn off apps and control app actions. On Enterprise and Education plans, apps are off by default until a workspace owner or administrator enables them. Enterprise and Education administrators can also use RBAC to restrict who can use each app.
```

:::

> ### Add Airbyte from the ChatGPT app directory

Author: We should really not be using headers in a tab. There's no reason for this.

1. Open [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com) on the web. OpenAI doesn't currently document a separate app directory setup path for the desktop app.

2. Open the app directory. In the current web UI, click **Apps** in the sidebar. OpenAI's help center also documents the app directory at **Settings** > **Apps**.

3. Search or browse for **Airbyte Agent Engine** in the app directory.

4. Open the **Airbyte Agent Engine** app page and click **Connect**.

5. Click **Sign in with Airbyte Agent Engine**.

6. If you're not logged into Airbyte, log in now and grant access.

7. Open a new conversation.

8. Ask ChatGPT to use Airbyte Agent Engine. For example, _"Use Airbyte Agent Engine to find open Salesforce opportunities."_ You can also explicitly add it to the conversation with `@Airbyte Agent Engine` or from **+** > **More** > **Airbyte Agent Engine**.

### What ChatGPT can do with Airbyte

After you connect Airbyte, ChatGPT can discover the tools and connectors available to your Airbyte account. It can read and search connected data, use the Context Store, and create or update records when the connector supports write actions.

> ChatGPT controls whether write actions require confirmation. Workspace administrators can also restrict which app actions are available. Airbyte still enforces your Airbyte account permissions and each third-party service's credentials and scopes.

Author: Is this necessary to say? Isn't this discussed as part of the MCP doc overall?

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="chatgpt" label="ChatGPT">

> ChatGPT can connect to the Agent MCP from the ChatGPT app directory. Use the app directory flow if Airbyte is available in your ChatGPT account. If it isn't available, use the Developer Mode flow instead.

Author: I think it's safe to assume if you have access to Developer mode, you have access to apps. We don't need redundant instructions. Just document the official app path.

:::note Workspace controls can limit app access
ChatGPT can disable **Connect** based on your plan, geographic restrictions, or workspace settings. Some apps with search or deep research capabilities may not be available on Free or Go plans. On Business plans, workspace admins can disable apps and control app actions. On Enterprise and Education plans, apps are disabled by default until a workspace owner or admin enables them. Enterprise and Education admins can also use RBAC to restrict who can use each app.
:::

### Add Airbyte from the ChatGPT app directory

1. Open [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com) on the web.

> 2. Go to **Settings** > **Apps**.

Author: On my screen on the web, it's a first level option. No need to go to Settings. Can you check what the officially documented process is, both for the desktop app and for web?

3. Search or browse for **Airbyte** in the app directory.

> 4. Open the Airbyte app page and click **Connect**.

Author: The app is currently called Airbyte Agent Engine.

<img width="1822" height="384" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efd63942-6d6c-4747-acfa-fd37a5d8e0d0" />

> 5. If you're not logged into Airbyte, log in now and grant access.

Author: We should describe this step. You have to explicitly click "Sign in with Airbyte Agent Engine".

<img width="654" height="809" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1905f342-12cb-4ed8-ba95-70ce833b8a66" />

6. Open a new conversation.

> 7. Add Airbyte to the conversation. Use `@Airbyte` in your prompt or click **+** > **More** and select Airbyte.

Author: It's `@Airbyte Agent Engine`. It also appears in the More menu as "Airbyte Agent Engine".

> 8. Ask ChatGPT to use Airbyte. For example, _"Use Airbyte to find my open Salesforce opportunities."_

Author: Step 7 and 8 seem like two ways to do the same thing, no? I can tag Airbyte or just ask to use it. I don't seem to need to do both.

> ### Set up Airbyte manually with Developer Mode

Author: Let's get rid of the Developer Mode steps.

:::note Admin access required for Business and Enterprise/Education plans
On Business, Enterprise, and Education plans, you must be a workspace owner or admin to enable Developer Mode and create custom apps. On Enterprise and Education plans, admins can also use RBAC to authorize specific users as developers.
:::

1. Open [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com) on the web.

2. Go to **Settings** > **Apps** > **Advanced settings**.

3. Toggle **Developer mode** to **ON**.

4. Go back to **Settings** > **Apps**.

5. Click **Create App**. This button only appears when Developer Mode is enabled.

6. Enter the connector details:

   - **Connector name**: `Airbyte Agents`
   - **Connector URL**: `https://mcp.airbyte.ai/mcp`

7. Click **Create**. ChatGPT connects to the Agent MCP and detects its tools. The custom app appears under **Settings** > **Apps**.

8. If you're not logged into Airbyte, log in now and grant access.

9. Open a new conversation to start using the MCP server.

### What ChatGPT can do with Airbyte

> After you connect Airbyte, ChatGPT can discover the tools and connectors available to your Airbyte account. It can read and search connected data, use the Context Store when it's available for a connector, and create or update records when the connector supports write actions.

Author: ```suggestion
After you connect Airbyte, ChatGPT can discover the tools and connectors available to your Airbyte account. It can read and search connected data, use the Context Store, and create or update records when the connector supports write actions.
```

- Make sure you visited the credential URL the agent provided and completed the form in the browser.
- If the flow timed out, ask the agent to start a new credential flow.

### ChatGPT doesn't show Airbyte in the app directory

- Make sure you're using ChatGPT on the web and you're logged in.
- Go to **Settings** > **Apps** and search the app directory for **Airbyte**.
- If **Connect** is disabled, check whether your plan, geographic restrictions, or workspace settings limit access.
- On Enterprise and Education plans, ask a workspace owner or admin to enable Airbyte from **Workspace settings** > **Apps**.

> ### ChatGPT doesn't show the "Create" button

Author: We probably don't need this section anymore since we don't document developer mode.
